ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
XIGU ALLEY
Zheng! Zheng!
Changyu's slaughtering a pig!
Hurry, come watch!
Slaughtering a pig?
Don't move. I'll make it quick for you.
Be a good pig in this life.
Be a good person in the next!
I've heard that somewhere before.
Changyu's impressive, isn't she?
Yan Zheng.
Take Ning inside. Don't let her watch.
Or she'll have nightmares again.
Alright.
Let's go.
Don't look.
Don't be afraid.
I'm not afraid of that.
I mean, don't be afraid of my sister.
Do you need my help?
Did I scare you just now?
If you're scared or disgusted,
just say so.
I'm used to it.
Scared? Not really.
Then you're disgusted.
You never minded my injuries.
How could I mind the work you do?
Stop staring. Go back inside.
Go inside and rest. Leave the fire to me.
Once we start singeing
the bristles, it'll stink.
That's nothing.
I've smelled worse.
Burning corpses.
Right.
You worked as an escort guard.
You must have seen the dead.
This pork…
Should I hang it up?
Not yet.
This pork
needs to be cured with salt.
Just like this.
Spread the salt evenly on the meat.
Salt it for a few days,
then hang it to dry.
Let me do it. I'll help you.
My parents used to make
cured meat like this,
working together.
Then what did you do?
Ning and I only caused trouble.
This piece is still too big.
Make cuts so the flavor gets in.
Pass me the knife.
This one.
This knife…
Where did it come from?
My father had it specially forged.
Do you know what this knife was made of?
Iron.
What did you expect, silver?
But Father said
these two knives are our heirlooms.
They fed our whole family.
Seems his skills were good.
Where did he learn?
He roamed far and wide in his youth.
He probably learned
from some reclusive master.
BY IMPERIAL GRACE
You win.
Uncle, I win!
It's only a slight edge.
Is that worth celebrating?
That's General He humoring you.
No…
Salt is expensive.
It's just a little salt.
What's there to fuss about?
You don't manage the household,
so you don't know.
Changyu, is the pig's tail ready?
It's in the pot. It needs a bit more time.
Look at you.
It's not even ready,
and you're already drooling.
Little glutton.
-I'm not a glutton!
-You are.
Got it!
What are you…
I've seen this gyrfalcon around
a few times.
So I set a trap for it.
Didn't think I'd actually catch it.
You little brute, you dare bite me?
I'll take it to the market tomorrow
and sell it for ten taels.
At the market…
Few people buy live birds like this.
Not many know how to tame one.
Its wild nature is hard to break.
It could easily hurt someone.
That's a pity.
Its wing's injured too.
Otherwise,
I'll just stew it for soup.
Ning, turn around.
No.
I have eaten
this kind of bird before.
Tough and gamey. Barely edible.
Don't worry, I'll prepare it.
My braising stock could
make even wood taste good.
No.
Actually, I know a bit about taming birds.
I can try to tame it.
A trained gyrfalcon can fetch
over a hundred taels.
Over a hundred taels?
That's far too expensive!
-Ning, get a chicken cage.
-All right.
Then we'll keep you at home for now.
My little hundred-tael prize.
You foolish bird.
What are you doing?
I'm bandaging it.
Why are you using that?
What's wrong with this strip of cloth?
This is the hair ribbon I gave you.
I thought it was just a rag.
Father, Mother,
as the year draws to a close…
this is our New Year pig.
I brought some for you to try.
It's only the third day since my wedding.
My husband doesn't know
we must be frugal with salt.
But he helped me make cured meat.
And he stands up to support me.
Father, Mother, please bless him
with a swift recovery
and a peaceful life ahead.
As for Song Yan…
that wretched schemer…
make him fail the imperial exams!
SPIRIT TABLET OF MENG LIHUA
SPIRIT TABLET OF FAN ERNIU
TEA
TEA, NOODLE SOUP, FAN'S PORK STALL
DUMPLINGS, GUO'S PORK STALL, NOODLE SOUP
FAN'S PORK STALL
Come take a look!
Who smashed my stall?
If you've got the guts, show yourself!
Whoever's hiding is a spineless bastard!
Why are you staring at me? It wasn't me.
You know what?
When someone behaves recklessly,
Heaven will deal with her.
Oh no, Changyu.
Your stall's been shut
for nearly two months.
Did you pay the protection fee?
What protection fee?
GUO'S PORK STALL, NOODLE SOUP
GUO'S PORK STALL
You still dare reopen?
Not afraid of dying?
Let's see who on this street
dares refuse to pay.
It's you.
Turn around.
I'm talking to you.
Mrs. Fan…
Oh.
This… This pork stall is yours?
Very good.
How much are you asking for?
A misunderstanding.
It's all a misunderstanding!
How could we possibly
demand money from you?
Hey!
Understood. Fix it at once.
Come on! Come on!
We take money
to settle troubles for people.
-Please forgive us.
-On whose behalf?
We'll fix your stove.
Just don't ask, okay?
We may be ruffians,
but we don't betray our employers.
Quite principled.
The owner of Wang's Braised Meats sent us.
Him?
I don't even know him.
I swear it.
-You're called Mr. Jin, right?
-I am Jin Yuanbao.
Just call me Yuanbao. Or Bao.
Don't just tidy up here.
Inside needs tidying up too. Hurry up.
They are Man Di, Man Cang, and Man Wu.
-Order us as you please.
-All surnamed Man?
I named them. Am I not called Jin Yuanbao?
They should be Full House,
Ground, and Granary.
Hurry and fix it. I need to reopen.
-Open for business.
-You, come here.
-Come.
-Come and buy meat.
-You, you…
You two, come here.
What are you doing? Forcing customers?
Buy… Buy some pork!
No, no.
-Buy some!
-Go buy some meat!
Come on. Come on.
-Come on.
-Buy some.
Come.
FAN'S PORK STALL
Just under three liang.
Here you go.
Pork belly.
Perfect balance of lean and fat!
Any cut you like!
Madam…
-This cut's perfect for dumplings.
-Delicious, right? Come again!
GUO'S PORK STALL
See that?
That woman
is using cheap tricks to lure customers.
Are you jealous or envious?
Mind your words,
or you'll face retribution.
I neither steal nor rob.
What retribution would I fear?
Keep an eye on your husband.
Then you'd better watch your own stove.
Or it might get smashed too!
Not bad.
Come again next time!
Fresh pork!
You little brat!
-I'll beat you, you little brat!
-Granny…
-Granny!
-What are you doing here?
-To beat you!
-Why?
-You…
You're collecting protection fees again.
When will you ever change?
I didn't! Ask them
if you don't believe me!
What's that in your hand?
Isn't that money?
No, I… It's money,
but it's not protection money.
The Fan sisters just lost their parents.
Only the two of them remain. It's pitiful.
Don't do such wicked things!
You…
-Don't do such wicked things!
-Granny, stop hitting!
You don't know the situation.
-You never listen!
-Granny, stop hitting!
Granny Jin.
He didn't take any money from me.
They're helping me sell pork. Honest work.
Selling pork?
Is…
Is that true?
Yes.
-They even swept the floor.
-We did.
They also fixed the stove outside.
Everyone saw, right?
In a way.
My grandson has potential.
He used to be obedient and sensible.
From now on, work steadily and honestly.
Don't hold up Mrs. Fan's business.
Granny, you hurry home.
You're holding up business.
-Okay.
-Go home.
I…
Look at you, child.
Work hard.
My grandson has potential.
He won't do bad things again.
Alright, alright.
It's just my granny.
I'm grown up, yet she still
treats me like a kid.
If word gets out, how am I
supposed to keep my standing?
Stop looking! Come and buy meat, quickly.
If not, get lost.
Come on, let's go.
Take a look.
You have such a good grandmother.
Be content.
You've got hands and feet.
Earn an honest living.
What honest work could we even do?
In times like these,
it's hard enough to survive as a rogue,
let alone as a good man.
Man Wu's mother
is sick and needs medicine.
Man Di's sister
was forced by her uncle
to work at Huaman House.
In half a year, she'll turn 15.
If she's not redeemed,
she'll be registered as a courtesan.
Man Cang
has been an orphan.
He eats a lot, but isn't very bright.
He can't handle proper work.
Who would hire him?
We do want to be good people.
But in these years of endless war,
good people can barely survive.
This is half fat, half lean.
Perfect for dumplings.
Thirty-five coins per jin.
It's a little over two jin.
Let's just count it as two.
Alright, I'll weigh it for you.
There's more here.
Take care. Come again next time.
Fresh pork!
Eat. This is for men who work honestly.
Not poisoned.
This is today's wages.
You only worked half a day,
so you get half a day's pay.
I won't give more.
But I won't short you either.
Slow down. You're not on the gallows.
Mrs. Fan.
Well…
Can we still come to help in the future?
Short on food and willing to work?
You're welcome here.
But if you do wrong, I won't show mercy.
It's Wang's shop on Central Street, right?
Yes.
You're going for revenge?
Mrs. Yin.
Please look after the shop for me.
Thank you.
Okay.
A man must have loyalty.
Let's go.
No wonder those ruffians obey her.
She's the real boss of them!
Sir.
All this money
for rice, flour, salt,
oil, soy sauce, and vinegar?
One cart won't be enough to carry it all.
Then prepare another cart.
Alright!
Add ten more jars of fine wine,
suitable for elders.
Add some tea leaves and pastries as well.
This is the address.
No problem.
Right.
Do you have any ointment
suitable for chapped skin?
Yes, we do.
We have the best clam ointment.
Just arrived. Take a look.
I'll take them all.
Certainly, sir.
Where can I buy wrist guards like these?
Do you have any for young ladies?
Sir, you must be joking.
We men wear these wrist guards
for heavy labor.
They are not for young ladies.
You won't find any.
Where is Mrs. Fan going?
She looks furious.
She's going to settle the score.
What's going on?
Haven't you heard?
Wang is jealous of her business.
He sent men to smash her stall.
So she's heading to Wang's with her men.
If anyone asks,
just say Fan Erniu placed an order here
and paid in advance for New Year goods.
Alright, sir.
Such a nice girl.
How did she turn so fierce?
Don't you think so, sir?
Thank you, sir.
STEAMED STUFFED BUN
Mrs. Fan, you're here today to--
-Gentlemen…
-Step aside!
WANG'S BRAISED MEATS
Tell the owner to come out.
He had the guts to smash my stall,
now he hides like a turtle?
What's going on?
Gentlemen…
Let's wait until our owner arrives.
What's all the noise?
Landlord.
So you're the one
who sent men to smash my stall?
It was him.
He gave us five taels to smash your stove.
Who are you?
Trying to deny it
now that there's no proof?
We were just drinking at the tavern.
Weren't you the one who approached us?
-And you still deny it?
-Exactly!
The tavern owner can also testify to it.
Anyone who goes back
on his word is a coward!
The noble heir of the Wang family
dares to smash a stall,
yet dares not admit it?
It's just a stove.
I smashed it. So what?
What can you do to me?
A girl like you
should be in your chambers embroidering,
yet you run out to do business.
Isn't that absurd?
Just because I'm a woman,
I should endure your bullying?
I'm not bullying you.
I'm doing you a favor.
Look at you.
You are rather pretty.
Why toil so hard for such petty trade?
I have plenty of silver.
Name your price.
Sell me the recipe,
and yourself as well. How about it?
What are you, to think you're worthy
of buying my recipe?
You wretch.
By cozying up to that old dog Li Deqin,
you stole our business
with Yixiang Restaurant!
And you still dare show up?
You pig-slaughtering wench, how dare you--
-Yes!
When she dealt with us before,
she was holding back!
Tell me.
How did I steal your business
with Yixiang Restaurant?
We… We lost Yixiang Restaurant's business.
I heard Li Deqin recommended your pork.
And because of that, you slander me?
Sorry, sorry.
-Serves him right!
-Yes!
Good thing it's Fan Erniu's daughter.
If it were some other family's children
being bullied like this,
-they'd have nowhere to turn.
-But Heaven!
That's right.
To me,
this is Wang's bullying decent folk.
Exactly!
Back when the old owner was alive,
their business thrived.
Ever since he passed away,
their braised meat
has worsened by the day.
-Right?
-Yeah!
No wonder Yixiang won't deal with him.
-Serves you right!
-I… you people…
If it were me,
I wouldn't deal with him either.
If you dare spread rumors
and ruin a woman's name again,
be careful.
My knife has no eyes.
Yes, yes.
-You wretch!
-Landlord!
I… Today I…
WANG'S BRAISED MEATS
Let me see you out.
Is that Fan Changyu?
Exactly.
Interesting.
Turns out she's quite the fiery one.
Let's go.
Your injuries aren't fully healed yet.
Why did you come?
I just came to see.
Heard you went to Wang's.
So I came to take you home.
How did it go?
I hadn't even laid a hand on him.
I just kicked the table
and he nearly fainted.
Then he…
Why do you stop?
You…
Do you think I'm vulgar too?
You wretch!
Those who have enough to eat and wear
can afford to talk
about vulgarity or refinement.
But for those struggling to survive,
no one has the right to judge.
Before, my father wouldn't let me fight
in front of others.
My mother even more so.
She wouldn't let me butcher pigs.
She said if a girl knew such things,
people would laugh at her.
If I married Song Yan,
even if he didn't mind,
others would gossip behind my back.
Later, Father and Mother died.
To make a living,
I had no choice but to butcher pigs.
And even fought
to teach people lessons several times.
Now everyone in town
probably thinks I'm some she-devil.
The gambling house
even sent me an invitation,
saying that if I ever
stopped slaughtering pigs,
I could help them collect debts.
Then go collect debts.
Really?
You're encouraging me to do that?
I'm telling you
not to fear people's gossip.
Rumors cost nothing to spread.
Their harm is great, especially for women.
You have to make them hurt
more than their victims.
That is the only way to cut it off
at the root.
Cut it off at the root?
What does that mean?
Take a guess.
I don't know.
-Just try.
-So what does it mean?
-It means…
-Means what?
Changyu, eat! Zheng, eat!
All this oil and food,
where did it come from?
Father bought them.
Hey, don't talk nonsense.
Ning isn't talking nonsense.
I was surprised too when I saw all this.
The shop assistant said it was silver
your father deposited months ago.
It was all exchanged
for New Year goods and delivered here.
Where would my father get so much money?
They were really from Father?
Yes. That gentleman is called Fan Erniu.
See? How could this be fake?
Now, where would you find a fool
who delivers goods for others for free?
Yan Zheng, isn't that right?
Yes.
It's not much.
Nothing worth mentioning.
Not much?
Changyu, look, there's also this!
Clam ointment?
Food is one thing,
but why buy something so useless?
Which shop? I'll return it.
Don't return it.
Father must have felt sorry
for your chapped hands.
They are for you.
Father wouldn't waste money
on something useless.
I'll return it and buy candy.
Wait.
Once used…
it can't be returned.
-If you like it, take it and use it.
-No.
If you don't want it, why open it?
Once used, it can't be returned.
Silly girl. Your husband cares about you.
He wants you to keep it for yourself.
MARRIAGE
It's already opened.
I'll just use a bit.
Buying such useless things…
What was Father thinking?
Your father
was thinking exactly that.
The trial begins tomorrow.
Do you need me to accompany you?
No, Mr. Zhao and the others will be there.
Your leg is injured.
Kneeling for long won't do you any good.
I've memorized all you taught me.
I'm not afraid.
No knives allowed.
-This is my tool of livelihood.
-Not allowed.
INTEGRITY, PRUDENCE, DILIGENCE
YAMEN
That's right.
Where are Fan Daniu and his wife?
Have they lost track of time?
Those two heartless wretches.
I'd believe they'd even
forget their own parents' names.
But forget fighting over a house?
I don't believe it.
That's true.
Then what are they up to?
They're the plaintiffs!
JUSTICE IS BLIND
-Court is in session.
-Order in court…
Bring forth the plaintiff
and the defendant!
ORDER
Who kneels before the court?
I am Fan Changyu.
I pay my respects, Your Honor.
Where is the plaintiff, Fan Daniu?
Outrageous!
In all my years on the bench,
this is the first time
a plaintiff has failed to appear.
Your Honor, please be calm.
Fan Daniu's continued absence
suggests something may be amiss.
How about sending a constable
to his home to investigate?
That would demonstrate
Your Honor's fairness in this matter.
Granted.
Constable Wang.
Send men to the Fan residence
in East Village at once.
Yes.
-Court is adjourned for now.
-Court adjourned.
-Adjourned?
-What?
-Come. Make way.
-Mr. Wang, what's going on?
It's fine. Come.
Changyu didn't seize Fan Daniu, did she?
Why capture him?
Changyu is already married.
With a case she's bound to win,
why would she risk it?
Besides, she was at home
the whole time last night.
Alright, that sets my mind at ease.
‎YAMEN
JUSTICE IS BLIND
QINGPING COUNTY YAMEN
Court is now in session!
Order in court…
Your Honor, I have taken in
a live-in husband.
By law, I am entitled
to inherit the family house.
We've waited an hour.
We will wait no longer.
Since the plaintiff has failed to appear,
judgment is hereby awarded
to the defendant!
Your Honor!
You must uphold justice
for me, Your Honor!
Your Honor!
You must see justice done!
You cursed girl!
To seize this house,
you even killed your own uncle!
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS FILM
‎Subtitle translation by: Peng Peng